Now that we've added a little bit of paint onto our object here we could take it off as well by changing
the blend mode from mix to subtract.
And then if we just paint over this you can see it erases what we've done.
Now we can do the same thing by pressing the control key and drawing as well.
Notice that the strength is only at point seven if I drag it all the way up to 1 and hold control and
drag.
I can erase that whole thing to erase the rest of this a little easier.
I should increase the size of the brush and to do that I can come over here to the radius and click
and drag that up a bit and then I can hold control and click and begin erasing this.
In addition I can tap the F key and change the size of the brush interactively and I can also change
the strength of the brush by pressing shift F and moving the mouse in and out as well.
So I'll just go ahead and race this stroke here with control and click and drag and now what I'd like
to do is fill this whole object with a base color that's kind of like the color of that flour sack.
So what I need to do is bring in the image of that flour sack to do that I'll come over here and change
this view from a node editor to a U.V. Image Editor click on open image here and bring in that reference
image.
I have it in my images folder here.
I'll click on this button right here so I can see them so I can see which one I want.
And I think it's this flour sack for I'll open that up and there it is.
Now it does have the U-V wires over the image.
I don't really want that.
What I can do is change from view to paint and then come over here to view and turn off draw texture
paint.
And then I just have the plain image.
Now I'd like to sample one of these colors here.
If I hold the key down and move the mouse around you can see hovering over the various colors in the
image.
I can click on one of the colors maybe say something like that and that will create a palette in which
that color will be stored.
Now it didn't change the color here.
I need to click on that palette to change to that color.
And now I can come over here and click and drag and paint on the object.
However I need it on the whole object.
And if I came through here and tried to click and drag I could do it I could paint on this whole thing
and fill this entire object with that color.
But it might take a while.
So instead what I can do is come over here to the brush palettes here and choose the fill brush.
Now once again I need to choose that palette color here and now if I click on the object it will fill
that entire object.
But it didn't fill it with quite the right color and the reason why is that the strength is only at
point five.
So we're seeing some of the black through the color I can bring that strength up again to one and click
over here and that fills the whole thing.
All right.
So we have the bag at least filled now with a base color.
I'll click the brush menu again and go back to my texture.
Draw a brush.
Notice that the Asterix is back here on the image menu.
That means we haven't saved yet.
So if I pressed control or command s to save the scene it's still there.
It still hasn't been saved.
What I need to do is save the image here or press alt s so I'll press alt s and there we go.
Now it's been saved.
So when texture painting and blender saving is a two step process control or command s to save the scene
and Allt as to save the image.
Now let's see if we can lay down a kind of burlap texture on our object as well to do that we'll need
to bring in a texture for our brush.
So first of all what I'll do is I'll drag open a new window over here and change this to a propertys
window.
Now over here in the materials panel we can see that here is our flour sack material.
And in addition if we switch over to the texture panel we can see here under this pull down menu we
have a texture setting for our brush.
So I click that now in here we can create a new texture for our brush.
Now this panel can also be seen right over here as well.
So clicking new here is the same as clicking new here.
If I click here you can see it created this black here which is the same as this black texture here.
Now we can add procedural textures to this generated by Blendr or we can bring in images as well.
And I have an image I'd like to try and use.
So I'll come over here to the image section of my brush texture click open and I'll browse to that texture.
Here it is here.
I have a seamless image of burlap texture so I'll select that and click open image.
Now that adds that to the image texture here.
So let's give this a try.
I'm going to bring the strength down just a little bit so it kind of mixes with that base color.
And then I'll come over to my 3-D object and just click and drag that's not quite the effect I want
so I'm going to undo that maybe take this down 2.5 and increase the brush size hit the F key and move
the mouse a bit and now try painting like this.
And that's a little more of the size of the texture that I was hoping for.
Kind of like this.
I'm going to undo that and if I zoom out you can see that the relative size of the brush now is is bigger.
So I can click and drag and see now that burlap is going down onto the object quite a bit larger so
this size in my frame I'll go ahead and try this.
I will click and drag and move back and forth here and see how it's going to look and that's pretty
good.
The problem is is it didn't get all the way over here if I tried to then click and drag over here I
would see an overlap over here you can see it here in the U-V image editor.
So if I undo that perhaps what I should do is try and paint over here in the movie image editor and
I'll just click and drag holding the mouse down so that we get a nice even texture.
Now you can also use a pen and tablet for this.
And I would recommend that as well.
But for this I'll just go ahead and hold the mouse button down and lay that texture all across this
particular U-V island.
Now I'll go ahead and do the same thing for the U-V islands up here.
Up top click and drag.
So in this way you can paint tile texture so I have the tiled brush mapping selected here and lay a
texture down over your entire object.
The last thing I want to do is get some sort of label on the flour sack.
So in the next video let's take a look at using the stencil feature in Blender's texture painting tools.